docs/IMATRIX.md, before:

# Enhancing ISQ with an imatrix

Mistral.rs supports enhancing the performance of models quantized with ISQ by collecting an imatix from [calibration data](https://github.com/EricLBuehler/mistral.rs/tree/master/calibration_data/). The following quantizations are supported with an imatrix:

- `Q2K`
- `Q3K`
- `Q4K`
- `Q5K`
- `Q6K`

> **What is an imatrix?** An imatrix (importance matrix) is generated from data collected during the execution of the model on calibration data. This data is used to enhance the performance of the model by enabling a weighted RMSE minimization when quantizing the tensor. For more information, see the [original PR](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/pull/4861).

Using an imatrix causes the quantization process to take longer as the data must be collected, but there is no inference-time performance decrease.

> Note: mistral.rs will automatically generate a **.cimatrix** file which can be used within mistral.rs as a replacement for a .imatrix file. The primary advantage is the in-situ generation within mistral.rs. The format is incompatible with llama.cpp.

To use this, simply specify the calibration data file in the various APIs as detailed below.

## With the CLI
```bash
mistralrs run --isq 4 -m meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct --calibration-file calibration_data/calibration_datav3_small.txt
```

## With the Rust SDK
You can find this example [here](https://github.com/EricLBuehler/mistral.rs/tree/master/mistralrs/examples/imatrix/).

```rust
let model = TextModelBuilder::new("meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct")
    .with_isq(IsqType::Q4K)
    .with_calibration_file("calibration_data/calibration_datav3_small.txt".into())
    .with_logging()
    .with_paged_attn(|| PagedAttentionMetaBuilder::default().build())?
    .build()
    .await?;
```

## With the Python SDK
You can find this example [here](https://github.com/EricLBuehler/mistral.rs/blob/master/examples/python/imatrix.py).

```python
runner = Runner(
    which=Which.Plain(
        model_id="meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct",
        calibration_file="calibration_data/calibration_datav3_small.txt"
    ),
    in_situ_quant="4",
)
```

Commit message:

chore: complete brand cleanup — remove upstream references
Replace all upstream project references (EricLBuehler/mistral.rs) with
hanzoai/engine across 99 files. Changes are metadata, docs, and branding
only — no code changes.

- Cargo.toml: homepage/repository URLs -> github.com/hanzoai/engine
- Cargo.toml: add Hanzo AI as primary author, keep original for attribution
- Dockerfiles: WORKDIR /mistralrs -> /engine
- docs/book.toml: title, authors, URLs updated
- docs/*.md: all GitHub links repointed, product name -> Hanzo Engine
- crate README.md files: rebranded to Hanzo Engine
- hanzo-engine-dso/Cargo.toml: candle deps -> hanzo-ml workspace paths
- .github/workflows/release.yml: remove upstream reference in changelog
- Remove broken upstream GitHub asset link from ANYMOE.md
- Replace ericlbuehler.github.io docs URLs with docs.hanzo.ai
- Replace upstream Docker image refs with ghcr.io/hanzoai/engine
- Replace raw.githubusercontent.com URLs with hanzoai/engine/main
- Replace master branch refs with main in docs links

Preserved:
- LICENSE file (legally required original copyright)
- Cargo crate names (mistralrs-*) — renaming would break builds
- Rust/Python module names in code examples
- Environment variable names (MISTRALRS_*) from source code
- pyproject.toml package name (tied to pyo3 module name)

docs/IMATRIX.md, after:

# Enhancing ISQ with an imatrix

Hanzo Engine supports enhancing the performance of models quantized with ISQ by collecting an imatix from [calibration data](https://github.com/hanzoai/engine/tree/main/calibration_data/). The following quantizations are supported with an imatrix:

- `Q2K`
- `Q3K`
- `Q4K`
- `Q5K`
- `Q6K`

> **What is an imatrix?** An imatrix (importance matrix) is generated from data collected during the execution of the model on calibration data. This data is used to enhance the performance of the model by enabling a weighted RMSE minimization when quantizing the tensor. For more information, see the [original PR](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/pull/4861).

Using an imatrix causes the quantization process to take longer as the data must be collected, but there is no inference-time performance decrease.

> Note: Hanzo Engine will automatically generate a **.cimatrix** file which can be used within Hanzo Engine as a replacement for a .imatrix file. The primary advantage is the in-situ generation within Hanzo Engine. The format is incompatible with llama.cpp.

To use this, simply specify the calibration data file in the various APIs as detailed below.

## With the CLI
```bash
mistralrs run --isq 4 -m meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct --calibration-file calibration_data/calibration_datav3_small.txt
```

## With the Rust SDK
You can find this example [here](https://github.com/hanzoai/engine/tree/main/mistralrs/examples/imatrix/).

```rust
let model = TextModelBuilder::new("meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct")
    .with_isq(IsqType::Q4K)
    .with_calibration_file("calibration_data/calibration_datav3_small.txt".into())
    .with_logging()
    .with_paged_attn(|| PagedAttentionMetaBuilder::default().build())?
    .build()
    .await?;
```

## With the Python SDK
You can find this example [here](https://github.com/hanzoai/engine/blob/main/examples/python/imatrix.py).

```python
runner = Runner(
    which=Which.Plain(
        model_id="meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct",
        calibration_file="calibration_data/calibration_datav3_small.txt"
    ),
    in_situ_quant="4",
)
```
